[Music]
eleven signs you're more emotionally
intelligent than others from Greek
philosopher Aristotle proposed fourteen
distinct emotional expressions all the
way to dr. robert plutchik 90
definitions of what emotion really is
it's clear that the feelings we
experience greatly affect our lives so
if you want to become a better friend
colleague partner parent and even leader
watch this video to learn about the
traits of emotionally intelligent people
and see if there are any skills you'd
like to work on don't forget to click
the subscribe button and turn on
notifications to join us on the bright
side of life one you can easily
influence other people people who are
aware of what they're feeling and why
they're feeling it have a clear
understanding of what they need to get
out of a certain situation this is why
it's easy for them to communicate in an
assertive manner while not coming across
as forceful or aggressive their
emotional awareness of their own
feelings and those of the people around
them allows them to feel confident in
their approach that in turn makes the
people they're addressing feel more
comfortable to you know how to read
situations correctly it's easy for
everyone to see that it's raining
outside but it's the difference between
noticing that one person feels sad about
the weather because they didn't bring an
umbrella while another feels happy about
the rain because it means their garden
will be tended to an emotionally
intelligent person will instantly be
able to understand without any words
that their colleague is wishing for
someone to offer to drive them home
after work three
you can keep cool under pressure it's
very hard to get under the skin of
someone with a high level of emotional
intelligence because these people are
very aware of who they are as a person
they accept themselves and their flaws
they don't feel the need to strive for
perfection because they understand and
accept the fact that a person cannot be
perfect and can only try to do their
best that is why you won't see an
emotionally intelligent
and cause a scene if someone tries to
insult them for you can successfully
manage difficult situations the ability
to be empathetic and sense what other
people are going through and how they're
feeling about it allows an emotionally
intelligent person to get to the bottom
of problems that might cause difficult
situations emotionally intelligent
people are in tune with the emotions
they're feeling and can quickly sense
the emotions experienced by the people
with whom they're dealing this type of
sensitivity allows people with a high EQ
to manage a situation without doing any
involuntary damage to anyone's feelings
[Music]
5 you can express yourself clearly
people with a high level of emotional
intelligence have a greater vocabulary
which really helps them get through to
the person they're addressing recent
research from the University of
California Berkeley suggests that there
could be 27 distinct types of emotion
they're all interconnected and being an
emotionally intelligent person means
being able to understand which emotion
is being experienced and what to do
about it if you ever catch yourself
feeling nervous you may actually be
feeling anxious because you feel that
you haven't prepared enough for a
certain situation understanding the true
nature of your emotions and the emotions
of those around you won't be of much use
if you're unable to categorize the
emotions and describe them clearly six
people respect you emotionally
intelligent people are not successful
because they always say yes to
everything and everyone that's not what
makes people like admire and respect
them what does is the fact that people
with a high EQ level are very certain
when it comes to their priorities they
won't drop everything to attend to a
last-minute dinner invitation this makes
an emotionally intelligent person appear
reliable and dependable in the eyes of
others the ability to calmly say no when
they know something is not right for
them is what makes people respect them
seven you can read facial expressions
none of us exists without nonverbal
communication however there's no
dictionary to help us understand any of
these tiny often barely noticeable cues
that's why being able to correctly
interpret wordless messages and being
able to send them in return is such an
important skill to have in both your
personal life and in the workplace an
emotionally intelligent person knows how
to pay attention to the silent cues
they're being sent during a conversation
and they know when it's best to take a
step back to offer more space to put a
hand on someone's shoulder and comfort
to squint their eyes and not in sympathy
or to offer an encouraging smile eight
you're funny
emotionally intelligent people have the
knowledge wittiness cleverness and
ability to sense when the time is
perfect for a joke their sensitivity to
the emotional atmosphere of certain
situations make them amazing at knowing
just what type of humor the people there
with would find truly side-splitting
people with a high level of EQ have a
knack for being able to relate to people
which means they can quickly find
something they have in common and make a
harmless joke that will help either
break the ice if they've just met or
diffused a difficult situation 9 you're
curious about other people being able to
empathize with those around you makes
you interested in their lives
the receptiveness you feel when you even
so much as make eye contact with someone
can be enough for you to wonder what
that person's life is like where they're
going where they're coming from and what
they're thinking about all of it such a
healthy level of curiosity is incredibly
important when it comes to successful
interpersonal relationships because it
allows a person to feel that they are
not being judged or criticized when
they're interacting with someone with a
high level of emotional intelligence 10
you know when to stop when it comes to
caffeine it's funny how we're so used to
using coffee and other caffeinated
beverages to help us get through the day
excessive amounts of caffeine can
trigger the release of adrenaline the
source of the fight-or-flight response
this makes us respond to situations more
quickly to help us survive
basically too much caffeine will make
your brain and body feel like they're in
survival mode and that everything
happening is slightly dangerous and must
be dealt with accordingly the funny
thing is that many people use caffeine
to fight off boring tasks at work
instead of running away from a predator
people with a high level of emotional
intelligence can sense the changes in
their emotional state if their actions
are driven by caffeine induced energy
and they choose not to play with such
emotional fire 11 you have a cat
according to the results of a study
conducted in 2014 at Carroll University
in Waukesha Wisconsin in which 600
college students were tested on their
personality traits and intelligence cat
people showed higher cognitive abilities
than those who preferred dogs maybe it
is something to do with the fact that
dogs openly share their emotions and
make it easier for us to read them while
cats always have us guessing and
guessing and guessing now that you know
all of the skills we've prepared a bonus
for you to keep in mind next time you
find yourself facing an emotional
challenge seeing is how emotional
intelligence is a skill you have the
opportunity to learn it and become more
successful in your relationships at home
and work here are three questions from
comedian Craig Ferguson that you should
ask yourself before saying something one
does this need to be said - does this
need to be said by me three does this
need to be said by me now if you find
yourself in a stressful situation or
having a difficult conversation remember
to pause and mentally answer these three
questions to better manage your
relationships with other people do you
have a high level of emotional
intelligence tell us in the comments
below don't forget to give this video a
like share it with your friends and
click Subscribe stay on the bright side
[Music]